London Cricket Club Constitution

- Aug 21 draft -

Name


The Club shall be known as London Cricket Club (LCC).


Objective


The objective of the club is to promote and foster the game of cricket at all levels within London.


Club Identity


- describe crest -


The club colours are claret and wedgewood blue.


The club shall maintain its Canadian Internet Domain licence for the domain name of londoncricketclub.ca by not allowing it to lapse, regardless of whether it has an active website or not. This domain name shall represent the club's website on the Internet.
 


Membership


Membership of the Club shall be open to all persons, without discrimination, either as playing members or non playing members.


The Club may refuse membership or expel from membership any member provided there is a valid reason to do so, such as conduct of character likely to bring the Club or sport into disrepute.


The club shall admit the following classes of members:


1. Honorary life members: may be awarded to any person who has aided the betterment of the Club in an outstanding manner. To be elected only at the Club AGM after written nomination signed by no fewer than five members, 14 days in advance of the AGM. 


2. Playing members: all those playing members who do not fall into the subsequent categories.


3. Student members: Members who are enrolled in a full time secondary or post-secondary educational institution.


4. Pavilion members: any member who wishes to associate with the Club and use its facilities. Pavilion members may play up to 3 games during one season.


Category (1) is to be elected by simple majority at the Club's AGM; (2)-(4) to be elected by a majority vote by the Executive at any of their regular meetings.
Dues


1. Dues for all classes of members will be set annually at the AGM by a simple majority vote following the financial report and proposed budget by the treasurer.


2. New members joining after May 31 will be assessed a pro rata amount of the appropriate dues, based on the number of months left in the playing season. Such amounts will be levied by the Executive Committee.
3. In the event that a games fee is levied at the AGM in addition to the membership fee this fee will be charged to all classes of members (on a per game basis).


4. Half the dues shall be paid on or before May 15th of the year, and the remainder by June 15th. Members with with dues in arrears after this date will be ineligible for selection except at the discretion of the Executive Committee. In no case may a member with dues in arrears from a previous year be considered for selection.


5. The Executive Committee shall be empowered to waive all or some part of a member's dues, at its discretion, if that member can make a valid case for financial hardship.


Officers


The Officers of the club, who will be elected each year at an Annual General Meeting, shall consist of:
President


The president shall preside over all meetings, and provide direction to the executive committee.


Vice President


The vice president shall be responsible for membership and fundraising, and shall act in the president's stead as required.


Secretary


The secretary shall be the primary point of contact between the Club and other parties, except for matters directly under the purview of other officers. The secretary shall take minutes, notify members of meetings, and in conjunction with the president create the order of business.


Treasurer


The treasurer shall:
* ensure that adequate accounts and records exist regarding the Club’s financial transactions, including accurate and up-to-date records of all income and expenditure;
* issue receipts and promptly deposit all monies received in the organisation’s bank account
* make all approved payments and invoice groups/members promptly;
* act as one of the signatories to the organisation’s bank accounts, manage the organisation’s cash flow and be accountable for the organisation’s petty cash;
* prepare and present regular financial statements to the committee at meetings;
* prepare an annual financial report and present it at the AGM along with a proposed budget for the following year


Captain(s)


The club shall elect at least one captain each season. The captains shall be responsible for:


* the running of practices
* assigning all game day tasks
* making sure that tea and driving arrangements are in place
* ensuring the on-field behaviour reflects positively on club
Club Manager


The club manager shall be responsible for all club facilities, including the equipment. He should maintain an up to date inventory of all club equipment and recommend repairs, replacements, and new purchases.
Fixtures Secretary


The fixtures secretary shall maintain contact with other clubs and associations to set and maintain the schedule of matches during the year. He shall ensure that all members have an equal opportunity to participate by arranging matches suitable to the membership.
Meetings


At any general meeting ten members shall form a quorum. At least two weeks notice shall be given for all general meetings.


Annual General Meeting


The AGM will be held on the first Saturday in October of each year. Not less than fourteen days notice for the AGM shall be given to members by the Secretary specifying the time and place of the meeting and appending an agenda of the business to be transacted.


The Committee shall submit a report of the working of the Club for the year.


Spring General Meeting


A spring meeting will be held each year on the third Saturday in April to review the preparations for the upcoming year.


Special General Meetings


A special, or extraordinary meeting of the club may be called only upon the written requisition of one third of the club members of the club or by the Executive Committee.


Election of Officers


Any member in good standing, who has been a member for at least three months, is eligible to be elected as an officer of the club. 
All Officers and appointed members of the Committee shall retire annually but shall be eligible for re-election. The office of president may not be held for more than four consecutive years by one person.


All elections shall be properly proposed and seconded and the decision shall be by majority vote.


Any member of the club may nominate a person for election as an Officer or member of the Committee.


Executive Committee


The management of the Club shall be vested in the Executive Committee consisting of the President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, and Club Manager. The committee shall be elected annually at the Annual General Meeting. Three members of the Committee shall form a quorum. The Committee shall meet monthly or as and when necessary and upon the written requisition of three members of the committee. The Secretary will maintain a record of each meeting.


Any Executive Member judged guilty of conduct considered detrimental to the interests of the club, or who is deemed not to be carrying out their duties, may be removed from their position by a two thirds majority vote of members present at a Special General Meeting convened on the recommendation of the Executive or by request of at least half the membership.


In the event of a casual vacancy occurring on the Executive before August 15, the Executive shall call a special general meeting to elect a replacement.


Power of Executive Committee


* to control the affairs of the Club on behalf of the members.


* to keep accurate accounts of the finances of the club through the Treasurer.


These should be available for reasonable inspection by members. The Club shall maintain a bank current account and the following officers shall be authorised to sign club cheques: two from the President, Vice President, Treasurer, and Secretary.


* To co-opt additional members of the Committee as the Committee feel this is necessary. Co-opted members shall not be entitled to a vote on the Committee.


* To make decisions on the basis of a simple majority vote. In the case of equal votes, the President shall be entitled to an additional casting vote.


Subcommittees


In addition to the below, the Executive may create additional subcommittees and appoint members to them as needed.


Selection Committee


The selection committee shall be charged with selecting players for each team based on the selection policy laid out by the executive committee. The selection committee shall be appointed by the Executive and should include the captain and at least one other member of the Executive Committee.


Disciplinary Committee


The Disciplinary Committee shall deal impartially with all matters of discipline and enforce the code of conduct. This committee will consist of the president, vice president, and the secretary.


Should a member of this committee be subject to disciplinary action, he shall be replaced on the committee by the treasurer.

